---
layout: page
title: GPU Sequence Alignment 
description: CUDA implementation of the Smith-Waterman Algorithm
img: assets/img/cuda.jpg
importance: 1
category: university
---
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/cuda.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

## Introduction
<p align="justify">
I have provided an implementation of the sequence alignment Smith-Waterman algorithm written in C using CUDA for the GPU-101 Project by Politecnico di Milano.
</p>

### Github Directories

In the implementation directory it is possible to find the code of the program, while in the profile directory the profiling files generated by using nvprof for the gpu implementation on a Tesla T4. Lastly, the report directory contains a detailed description and discussion of the algorithm and its implementation in a 4-pages PDF document.

## Code Usage

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/sw.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

### Compilation

In order to compile the implementation you need first of all to make sure you have access to a NVIDIA gpu, either on your PC or through Google Colab. Then, you need to open a terminal and clone this github repo with the following command.
```
git clone https://github.com/fabrizioaymone/cuda-smith-waterman.git
```
Then enter in the implementation directory.
```
cd cuda-smith-waterman/implementation/
```
Lastly, compile the source code using make
```
make
```
### Launching
There are two versions of the implementation: pure and conventional. See details in my report.
To launch the version of your choice pass to the program its name as argument. 
If you want, for instance, to run the pure implementation, use the following command.
```
./main.out pure
```
